# Sky Fight- COMP2113 GROUP 186
## Team members
- YANG JIALIN UID: 3035436648
- LIU WEI     UID: 3035556589
## Description of the Game
Sky Fight is a text-based plane war game that the player ( one player ) controls the direction of the plane to avoid the collision with enemy’s plane.

1. In the game, the player is able to shoot the enemy with their bullet continually. Each time, as the bullets are shot and kill one enemy’s plane, the player can earn points according to the enemy's type. 

2. As for the enemy plane, different size/type of the enemy are killed by different numbers of bullet shots. The largest plane is killed by 15 bullets (earn 30 points), the middle planes need 10 bullets(earn 20 points), and the smallest one needs 5 bullets(earn 10 points). 

3. Within fixed timing (eg. 20 sec),the number of enemy planes and enemy types are generated by the computer programme. 
  *(eg. time interval = 3s, release number = (1-3), plane type random )*

4. The game will end until the player are crushed with an enemy

5. At the game end, the score and the ranking according to history records will be displayed on the screen.
 
6. The player controls the direction with arrow symbols from the keyboard.

## Function and Feature of the game
 
  **[Generation of random game sets or events]**
   - the followings are generated by random generator
      - the number of enemy release (eg. 1-5) each time interval(eg. 5s)
      - the type of the enemy (within 3 types)
      
  **[Dynamic memory management]**
   - The total number of the enemy plane can change in every trial, hence we use linked list to store every individual enemy objects.
   - same for the bullet, we use linked list to store every individual enemy object.
 
  **[Data structures for storing game status]**
   - The points get by the player and the number of enemy killed will be store in the arrays
  
  **[File input/output]**
- In order to obtain ranking and store the history results, it needs to have file input and output to make results comparison and sorting. 

  **[Multiple files]**
- For the whole programme design, it includes several files:
    -Main.cpp, player.h, player.cpp, enemy.h, enemy.cpp, (image files, ranking history file)
    
 
 Rough Work Flow:
  - Main (Battleground)
    - Background (initialize/reset)
      - ClearBackgound()
      - Generate random enemy release number and enemy types  [Generation of random game sets or events]
      - Set up/Update release linked list for enemy and bullet  [Dynamic memory management]
      - Initialize/Update Player
      - Move player()
      - Draw functions (Draw player, enemies, explosion)      
    - Action function
      - Collision detection
        - player/enemy collision -> Endgame()
        - Bullet/enemy collision -> DrawExplosion()
    - Value Record Changes
      - Update points from defeating enemies
      - Print point at lower left corner PrintScore()
    - End game()
      - Output screen: "game over", name, points
      - Get ranking from ranking history file
  - class Player
    - Functions
      - Read image (char image[][]) [File input/output]
      - Move
      - Draw 
     - Variables: 
       - Height and width (by image)
       - Vertical position & horizontal position
       - Points 
  - class Enemy
    - Functions
      - Read image (char image[][]) [File input/output]
      - Move 
      - Draw
    - Variables
      - Type
      - Height and width (by image)
      - Vertical position & horizontal position
      - Speed 
      - Strength (how many hit by bullets to defeat)
  - struct Bullet
     - Vertical position & horizontal position
     - Node *ptr
  - class Explosion
    - Read Image (function)
    - Draw  (function)
    - Height width (variables)
    - Vertical position & horizontal position

